---
title: "Ultimate Sales Pages"
description: "How to develop the ultimate sales page by combining a unique product, a sensational offer and a powerful promise"
image: "/assets/images/handwritten-italian-marketing-menu.jpg"
tags:
    - online-marketing
---

In preparation for the [pre-launch phase]({% post_url /projects/unanimosity/2017-01-20-unanimosity-pre-launch-phase %}) of [Unanimosity](https://unanimosity.github.io/){: target="_blank" }, I found myself revisiting many of the *pre-launch landing pages* that had succeeded in getting me to sign up to one mailing list or another over the years, in a bid to discover what each of these pages have in common. This research is distilled into my **guidelines for the ultimate sales page** as documented below...

The need for aesthetically pleasing presentation featuring bold imagery that illustrated the site's purpose quickly and without the need to actually read the marketing copy was a given, so throughout this investigation my focus was instead on the written words that were so successful in sucking me in. When I considered those pages that did succeed in capturing my email address against those that failed to do so, I quickly noticed the fact that short, sharp body copy was effective; whereas those verbose landing pages that meander through hundreds of bullet points, testimonials and countless paragraphs of seemingly sleazy marketing speak in variously colourful, bold, italic and underlined text were ineffective as they reminded me of cheap late night telemarketing infomercials and those annoying, desperate cold callers that interrupt dinner time far too frequently (despite my phone number being on the Do Not Call register).

With that in mind, the challenge then became *how to promote ALL the benefits of a product in powerful but brief marketing copy*, and it became apparent to me that those who managed to do so successfully limited their body copy to simple statements that revolved around three core concepts. The mnemonic **USP** not only stands for *"Ultimate Sales Pages"*, but also for:

- **UNIQUE** (Product)
- **SENSATIONAL** (Offer)
- **POWERFUL** (Promise)

Each of these factors are described in more depth below...

## Unique Product

With the breadth of information about any given topic available on the Internet today, it can be hard to stand out from the crowd. With this in mind, the product that you are offering must be truly unique by exploring a topic from some new angle or offering insights that have not yet been published to the masses elsewhere.

Ironically, those landing pages that are short and sharp and succeed in capturing my email address all promote some unique angle on their given topic; whereas those long and unsuccessful landing pages that seem to yell their message at readers generally seem to be echoing the same repetitive proposition already published by the millions of other fish in the ocean. This suggests that the *uniqueness* of a product can almost be enough to convert a potential lead, while those who choose to "go with the flow" and "reinvent the wheel" have to try so much harder to generate a conversion! I know which group I would rather be in...

In the case of [Unanimosity](https://unanimosity.github.io/){: target="_blank" }, there are countless web sites out there promoting information products that promise to unlock handicapping and staking systems that will help the struggling punter to pick more winners. There are very few web sites out there that promise to give the avid punter a new insight into horse racing via data science and artificial intelligence, which is the *unique proposition* that I have based the *pre-launch landing page* upon.

## Sensational Offer

Even with a *unique product*, the successful marketers still need to secure a potential lead's interest with a **sensational offer**. Let's look at this need from both sides of the coin: the marketer is endeavouring to enter a niche market with no prior reputation and an as yet unproven *unique product*; accordingly, they are asking potential consumers to "take them on trust" by investing resources (time and/or money) in two unknown quantities: the marketer themself (with no prior reputation) and their unique but unproven product (that could be a major flop). From the consumer's perspective, this doesn't seem like a safe or sound investment to me!

In comparing the successful and unsuccessful *pre-launch landing pages*, I noticed the latter group almost always asked me to invest money up front by buying their product outright at some price that was heavily discounted against the arbitrary market value published on their web site. Knowing full well that this offer was nowhere near sensational enough to warrant such a high risk investment, they almost always tried to sweeten the deal by "throwing in a set of steak knives": embellishing the offer with a whole array of free value-add extras that were designed to make their *sensational offer* irresistable. Having been burned by this kind of marketing once before, receiving a primary product (after much chasing up) that failed to live up to the associated marketing hype along with a number of free value-add extras that really added no value whatsoever for me, I have never fallen for this kind of marketing again!

The *successful pre-launch landing pages* take the opposite approach, asking me to invest my time rather than my money up front, by getting me to exchange my email address for a totally free introductory product. As I enter my email address and hit the subscribe button, I know in the back of my mind that my email address will be used to market a paid product to me later on, but I don't mind: if their free introductory product gives good value and meets my immediate needs right now, then I will probably be interested in whatever it is that they try to sell me later on; and if their introductory product falls short of their (limited) marketing hype, then I will simply unsubscribe from their mailing list and never hear from them again, with nothing gained and nothing lost on either my part or theirs.

In the case of [Unanimosity](https://unanimosity.github.io/){: target="_blank" }, I have asked potential leads to exchange their email address for a free report containing artificial intelligence insights into Australian horse racing. Such a report would probably be worth a pretty penny to an avid punter who can see earning potential in such information, and yet I am giving it to them for free, indirectly asking them to invest a little time in the unknown quantity that is me and my product rather than trying to get them to part with their hard-earned cash up front. If I were a punter myself, that would seem like a pretty *sensational offer* to me!

## Powerful Promise

Through the *unique product*, a potential lead should know exactly WHAT they are getting; and through the *sensational offer*, they should feel like they are getting that product in exchange for a minimal, low-risk investment on their part. Still that may not be enough to convince the potential lead to take the next step: it often requires the addition of a **powerful promise** to do that!

All those unsuccessful *pre-launch landing pages* that I have referred to throughout this article make *powerful promises* that aim to reduce the high risk that they are asking consumers to accept in order to gain access to their products. Their marketing copy is littered with frequent terms such as "100% satisfaction no questions asked money back guarantee" and "FREE lifetime email support". Sadly, they are betting on the naivety of potential leads through terms like these: these marketers want to believe that the (probably self-authored) testimonials will be enough to convince consumers that they are men (or women) of their word, and that their promises and guarantees are legitimate. Remember that less than satisfactory experience I described above? I was naive enough to believe in their powerful promise of a "100% satisfaction no questions asked money back guarantee" and their "24/7 customer email support access"... Until my emails demanding a refund went unanswered, and I had to resort to filing for a chargeback via my bank to get (most of) my money back. Never again!

*Successful pre-launch landing pages* know that *powerful promises* are not related to the consumer's investment, but rather are related to how any given information product can change the consumer's life for the better! The *powerful promises* that these marketers make feature no mention of money back guarantees or email support services... No, they promise to help consumers achieve great new heights and/or avoid painful sticking points in whatever niche it is that they are targeting. These marketers know that the *pre-launch landing page* is NOT about making a quick sale, but rather is about *building the relationship* through insightful content that is invaluable to their potential leads.

In the case of [Unanimosity](https://unanimosity.github.io/){: target="_blank" }, I have formed *powerful promises* around both the highs and lows that punters experience as they bet on horse races: I have suggested that the free content that I am offering will help them to avoid frustrating (and potentially costly) losses by finding those horses that have what it takes to win despite not being favourites, alongside the suggestion that such predictions can be combined to maximise profits through more profitable exotic betting strategies... Everything the avid punter dreams of!

## Call To Action

There's one other vital element that must be included in a *successful pre-launch landing page*, and that's the **call to action**. Unfortunately, I couldn't think of an appropriate fourth word beginning with either C or A to add to the post title to use the same mnemonic for the title and key points, but that shouldn't detract from the importance of this final point!

Obviously your *pre-launch landing page* exists because you want the reader to do something as a result of being sold on your *unique product*, your *sensational offer* and your *powerful promise*, and a guided *call to action* should leave no doubt in the reader's mind as to what this next step is. From the perspective of a marketer following the guidelines contained in this article, that next step is going to be exchanging an email address (and subscribing to a mailing list) in order to get something of value for free. Alas, none of the *successful pre-launch landing pages* that have captured my email address have said as much in so many words.

Instead, the *successful pre-launch landing pages* wrap the *call to action* in one last short and sharp reminder of why the reader wants to take the next step by wording the *call to action* in some combination of the *unique product*, the *sensational offer* and the *powerful promise*. The text accompanying the sign up form does not politely ask the reader to sign up to yet another mailing list: no, it tells them to enter their email address to access the *sensational offer* TODAY! The big submit button doesn't simply say "Submit" or "Sign Up" or "Buy Now", even though that is what clicking on the button will do: no, the prominent green button words the action in terms on the consumer's immediate need rather than the marketer's business desire... For example, "Help me make more money online NOW" or "YES! I want to lose weight in the next two weeks!".

In the case of [Unanimosity](https://unanimosity.github.io/){: target="_blank" }, I have wrapped a mailing list sign up form in a paragraph of carefully worded instructions ("Get the edge by entering your email address below to claim this exclusive FREE report"), followed by a big green button that gets to the heart of what avid punters want most ("YES! I want to pick more winners...").
